Title: Ithaka
Date: 2015-02-07 19:46:37
Modified: 2015-02-07 19:46:37
Category: Poem
Tags: Poem
Slug: ithaka
Authors: Ramz
Summary: Ithaka

Zenpencils has produced a wonderful cartoon for this beautiful poem

<http://zenpencils.com/comic/131-c-p-cavafy-ithaka/>


> As you set out for Ithaka

> hope the voyage is a long one,

> full of adventure, full of discovery.

> Laistrygonians and Cyclops,

> angry Poseidon—don’t be afraid of them:

> you’ll never find things like that on your way

> as long as you keep your thoughts raised high,

> as long as a rare excitement

> stirs your spirit and your body.

> Laistrygonians and Cyclops,

> wild Poseidon—you won’t encounter them

> unless you bring them along inside your soul,

> unless your soul sets them up in front of you.

> <br />

> Hope the voyage is a long one.

> May there be many a summer morning when,

> with what pleasure, what joy,

> you come into harbors seen for the first time;

> may you stop at Phoenician trading stations

> to buy fine things,

> mother of pearl and coral, amber and ebony,

> sensual perfume of every kind—

> as many sensual perfumes as you can;

> and may you visit many Egyptian cities

> to gather stores of knowledge from their scholars.

> <br />

> Keep Ithaka always in your mind.

> Arriving there is what you are destined for.

> But do not hurry the journey at all.

> Better if it lasts for years,

> so you are old by the time you reach the island,

> wealthy with all you have gained on the way,

> not expecting Ithaka to make you rich.

> <br />

> Ithaka gave you the marvelous journey.

> Without her you would not have set out.

> She has nothing left to give you now.

> And if you find her poor, Ithaka won’t have fooled you.

> Wise as you will have become, so full of experience,

> you will have understood by then what these Ithakas mean.

> Translated by Edmund Keeley/Philip Sherrard

> (C.P. Cavafy, Collected Poems)