Title: Why Emacs
Date: Sun 03 Jan 2016 21:43:02 AEDT
Modified: Sun 03 Jan 2016 21:43:13 AEDT
Category: Tools
Tags: emacs
Slug: why-emacs
Authors: Ramz
Summary: Why i use emacs

Every now and then i see on the web, folks trolling about why we newbies should not indulge in learning tools like emacs or vim.
Instead they propose to using the new IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, etc.

Over the years i have used many such tools and i am going to talk only about few of them which are still around.
1. Eclipse
2. IntelliJ
3. Sublime Text

I have no qualms about them. Some of the advantages of these new age tools are
1. Easy to learn
2. Support for autocompletion
3. Support for refractoring
4. Support for Debugging

These are impressive features which lures many developers.

Most of the trolls about emacs/VIM vs Rest of the world comes from java users. **Yes**, emacs does not support java + profiling + debugging + etc
as the others. Many emacs users intellj / eclipse when debugging java code. The world does not contain just java developers.

Why we use emacs ...

** Emacs is for the polyglot **

In emacs you can develop for C/C++, Java, Python, Ruby, Haskell, Go, PHP, Lisp, OCaml, Scala, Latex, HTML, Javascript, Coffeescript, etc.
The list is endless.

Is there any IDE which can all these languages ? None.

As part of my job and as a part time student, i had to code in c/c++, python, coffeescript, sql, html, scala, Latex. There is no IDE which supports all
these. Using multiple IDEs means different interface, slightly different keyboard shortcuts. This means the keyboard shortcuts cannot become
your second nature.

Do not compare with emacs/vim if you are using just one or two languages.

** Emacs is a note taking tool **

None of the IDEs out there can be used for taking notes. They are horrible and downright useless for taking notes. So they use evernote or apple notes to take notes.
Emacs users use **org mode**. In org mode

1. Create notes
2. Create and schedule tasks
3. Save code snippets in any language and run it
4. Track your project
5. Write journal
6. Blog from it
7. convert your note to html, pdf, powerpoint, markdown, ....

None of the note taking tool can be 1/100 as good as emacs' org mode.

PS: A non Emacs user has IDE, Note taking tool.

** Emacs allows mouse less interface **

Many does not appreciate the mouseless interface. It gives you power to move to any part of screen with few key stroke. This is much faster than
using mouse. Thats why, websites like gmail, jira, confluence have keyboard shortcuts so that we can access different part of the website faster.
Once you have mastered it, you can code and write faster. There is no IDE which supports this.

** Emacs allows splitting screen **

Emacs Viewing same/different files simultaneously. You can view different part of the same file as well. You can split vertically or horizontally any
number of times. You can zoom in to fullscreen on each part and go back if needed.

Most of the editors donot support this. And even if they do they support only one split.

** Emacs has clipboard **

** Emacs supports latex **

** Emacs support emmet **

** Emacs can plot ***

** Emacs supports dash documentation **

** Emacs can open very large files **

** Emacs' provides configurable Adaptive text select **

** Emacs supports restclient **

** Emacs supports snippets **

** Emacs supports multiple projects at same time **

** Emacs provides multiple cursors **

** Emacs provides shell **

** Emacs provides file/directory diff tools **

** Emacs provides bookmarks for files **

** Emacs provides interface for directories **

** Emacs provides git support **

** Emacs allows you edit files via ssh like local files **

** Emacs allows you to browse **

** Emacs supports tweeting **

** Emacs allows you to chat **

** Emacs allows you to check mails **

** Emacs allows you to read news feed **

** Emacs allows syncing calendar **

** Emacs can play chess **

** Emacs UI does not interfere **

In Emacs you can use every inch of the screen for coding. All the IDEs have sidebar, menubar, etc which take up space and many does not allow you to remove it.
In emacs you can configure everything.
